In this lecture, we are going to add the rich text component for modifying the content inside the page
header.
Adding this component to our block is nothing new to us.
Therefore, I think it's a great opportunity.
As an exercise, I want you to add the rich text component to our block.
The client should be able to save the content in the block, pause the video and give it a try.
Good luck.
Welcome back.
Were you able to add the component?
Congrats if you did.
Otherwise, let's go through the solution together.
To begin, we are going to add an attribute for storing the content from the rich text components.
Open the block JSON file.
Inside the attributes object at a property called content.
Next set the property type to string.
Normally we would change the source.
However, our block will be rendered on the server.
WordPress will not be able to retrieve an attributes value from a non existent source.
For this reason we are going to store the content inside the HTML comments.
Let's open the index js file.
The next step is to add the rich text component to the edit component at the top of the file.
Import the rich text component from the WordPress slash block editor package.
Next, we can add this component to our block.
However, the template is not ready.
We should grab the template before adding the rich text component.
Head on over to the full site editor.
We are going to view the category template.
This template contains the static copy of the page header under the header.
Copy the code from the html block without the html comment.
Next.
Head back to the index file.
Inside the fragment elements.
Let's replace the div tag with our templates.
On the root element.
We should replace the class attribute with the block props variable.
Make sure to include the spread operator.
Next, let's modify the class attributes for the remaining elements with the class name attribute.
Great.
The template is ready.
We can proceed to add the rich text component.
The portion of the template that should be replaced with this component is the H1 tag.
Next, let's add the tag name property to add the H one tag as the container.
Moving on, add the placeholder property.
The value for the placeholder should be translatable.
Let's import the double underscore function for translating text at the top of the function.
Import this function from the wordpress slash ie 18 end package.
Head back to the placeholder property.
Let's translate the following text heading.
After adding the placeholder, we can begin to add the attributes to the component inside the argument
list.
Let's structure the attributes object and set attributes function.
For readability, we should de structure the attributes, object for the content attribute.
Next, let's set the value property on the rich text component to the content attribute.
To update the attribute, we must add the on change event with an arrow function.
The aero function will be provided the new value as an argument.
Let's use this value to update the content attribute with the set attributes function.
We've performed this action a few times.
I think this would be a good opportunity to introduce a cool trick of JavaScript.
So far we've been updating a property called Content.
The value for this property is the new value argument.
There is a shorter syntax for writing the same line of code.
Let's update the argument to be called content.
Next, let's remove the new value argument.
If we were to omit the value for a property, JavaScript would search for a variable called contents.
The value for this property will be the variable.
It's the equivalent of writing content contents.
If the name of the property matches a variable name.
We can shorten the syntax to the name of the property.
I prefer to use the shorthand syntax for the rest of this course.
I'm going to be using the shorthand syntax for updating attributes.
If this is too confusing, that's perfectly fine.
You can continue to stick with the longer syntax.
Readability is always preferred over clever syntax.
After making those changes, we can test our block, navigate to the experimental page.
Insert the page header block into the page.
We can freely type inside the block to edit the content.
Perfect.
I know I went through the solution very quickly.
However, it's nothing we haven't dealt with before.
Hopefully you understood every step in the next lecture.
Let's begin adding options to the sidebar to toggle the editable content.